=head1 NAME

aggis - describe what the given aggregate means

=head1 USAGE

    aggis [OPTIONS] ip_prefix[/prefix_length]
    aggis [OPTIONS] aggregate #_of_nets
    aggis [OPTIONS] aggregate - aggregate
    aggis [OPTIONS] aggregate last_byte_of_prefix_value
    aggis -h
    aggis -v

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Aggis is an IP range calculator which focuses on manipulating aggregates.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 5

=item B<-d, --dotted>

Include dotted-decimal masks.

=item B<-D, --inverted-dotted>

Include inverted dotted decimal masks.

=item B<-q, --quad>

Always use dotted quad format.

=item B<-l, --list>

Expand only into a list of classful nets.

=item B<-r, --ranges>

Always use "host ranges" for expansions.

=item B<-L, --list-ips>

Expand into a list of classful ips only.

=item B<-v, --version>

Output aggis version.

=item B<-h, --help>

Display a synopsis of command options.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

    $ aggis 141.212 - 141.214
    The range of nets from 141.212 to 141.214/16 can be represented by:

            141.212/15  (  2 nets:  141.212 - 141.213 )
            141.214/16  (  1 net:   141.214 )
    $ aggis 141.212/18 - 216
    The range of nets from 141.212.0 to 141.216.0/18 can be represented by:

            141.212/14  (  4 nets:  141.212 - 141.215 )
            141.216.0/18  (16384 hosts: 141.216.0.0 - 141.216.63.255 )
    $ aggis 141.212/18
        141.212.0/18 is a subnet representing 1/4 of Class B network 141.212

                                Address Range 141.212.0.0 - 141.212.63.255

=head1 HISTORY

This version of aggis was ported to Perl 5 from the most recent version
discoverable on Google, RCS version 2.7 from 1994/11/18, committed by
Dale Johnson.

In oldten times, aggis was available from merit.edu:pub/nsfnet/cidr/aggis,
which was long gone by the time of the Perl 5 port. There was, apparently,
a manual page, but it appears to be lost to the ages.

At the time, it was possible to run Aggis through Merit's whois server:

    whois -h prdb.merit.edu 'aggis 141.208.32/21'

but that host is also long gone.

=head1 AUTHORS

Aggis was written by Dale Johnson, Merit (dsj@merit.edu)
& Tony Bates, RIPE (Tony.Bates@ripe.net).

Perl 5 port by Rich Lafferty (rich@lafferty.ca).

